# An Intelligent Drone-Based Hierarchical Image Classifier: Defense against Mosquito-Borne Illnesses 

*2017 Science Fair Project*

## Abstract
With a continual threat of mosquitoes carrying deadly diseases such as Zika, Malaria, and Yel-low Fever, we as humans have constantly kept our guard up through the use of medical technologiessuch as vaccines, that have decreased our chances of contracting a disease. Why can’t we, instead,head straight to the source of these diseases, and find out where these mosquitoes are breeding? Byattacking them at their breeding grounds, we can control their diffusion to more populated areasto keep the diseases from spreading along with them.  Through the use of a drone-based systemthat has been trained to recognize mosquitoes and mosquito larvae at their breeding grounds, wecan deploy small pellets or a powdered form of   Bti, an organic and safe insecticide, to kill offthe mosquitoes. Through this process, not only can we decrease the population of mosquitoes, butalso the population of those carrying a disease, lowering the chances of contracting one by a largeamount.  My proposal is to employ Artificial Neural Networks, specifically Convolutional NeuralNetworks, to train a drone offline, using Google’s Machine Learning framework Tensorflow, aidedby GPU acceleration.  Employing a hierarchical image recognition-based algorithm, the field ofvision of the drone is first scanned for water bodies.  If found, the image will be cropped to thequadrant in which the water body is contained. This process of cropping continues until the dronecan identify the presence of mosquito larvae in the water. My hope is that with this approach, aidedby the new technological advancements of today, we can now target very point-specific locationsrather than large general areas to help solve the problem of diseases running rampant worldwide.
